## 4.1 A programmatic proposal in support of the Sendai Framework for Action agenda
This report calls for an expanded and coordinated international effort to improve regulatory implementation capacity in disaster-prone low- and middle-income countries through knowledge sharing and investment. It has established that building and land use regulation has not been effectively implemented as an essential component of disaster and chronic risk reduction in low- and middle-income countries. Disaster risk reduction will only remain an aspiration until competent regulatory regimes and compliance mechanisms are established.
In March 2015, the __Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction__ reasserted the strong international consensus to act now by expanding the full potential of effective building regulations in risk reduction. There is a largely unexploited opportunity to pool global experience from developed and developing countries at a larger scale in order to adapt lessons learned to vulnerable cities and disaster-prone areas in a selective, incremental way. This chapter outlines a proposed programmatic approach, providing a path for implementing Priority 3 of the __Sendai Framework for Action__ agenda. This approach builds on the recommendations  presented in Chapter 3. 
Achieving risk reduction in the most vulnerable areas will considerably depend on how other development initiatives succeed in helping the poor access better and safer housing and essential services. The program would seek to build synergies with related programs such as upgrading of informal settlements, affordable housing projects, housing finance, land development and use policies, regularization initiatives, and post-disaster reconstruction programs. 
A new Building Regulation for Resilience Program is outlined in this chapter. Given the evolutionary nature of building regulatory regimes, this program is primarily about initiating, and firmly setting countries on track toward accomplishing, effective reforms. Recognizing the incremental process of regulatory development, the intent of the program is to accelerate the application of scientific and engineering knowledge to building practice.
