## Program activities and institutionsAt the country level, the program will deploy Components 1, 2, and 3, which involve interdependent activities to be initiated simultaneously. Components of the regulatory regime can be strengthened in parallel at the central and local level. Country interventions will assume a three- to four-year timeline consistent with the time required to set reforms on track and complete the key recommendations from Chapter 3.### Component 1: National Level Legislation and InstitutionsBased on locally defined priorities, activities under this component will establish or improve the national legislative framework so that it can mandate the construction of safe buildings and enable the construction process to proceed efficiently. This component of the program will review national level regulations and legal provisions regarding the licensing and disciplinary oversight of the major stakeholders in the construction process. It will review the adequacy of appeals processes associated with administrative decisions made by local authorities. Because municipalities are often funded by national governments and are not always independent in their decision making, national authorities may exert considerable influence on how municipalities allocate regulatory resources and on what mechanisms for risk management they adopt. In administratively centralized forms of governments, Component 1 will provide advice on risk management to relevant national authorities.Component 1 is expected to support central government authorities in developing a comprehensive national coverage of hazard mapping, which is a highly specialized task with funding opportunities often available through central government channels. Component 1 will guide the development of quality control measures set at the national level. This will then ensure that regulatory reforms are effective at strengthening building code implementation at the local level.If there is demand, Component 1 could also include improvement to other supporting institutions through legislation; these supporting institutions include those involved in accreditation processes for building authorities, licensing of building professionals, development of liability and insurance mechanisms, and enhancement of housing finance instruments as they relate to code compliance and disaster risk reduction. The contribution of these institutions to code-compliant and safe construction would have to be reviewed Within this component, financial investment would aim to fund national hazard mapping programs and to expand the risk-based regulatory capacity of central authorities.Recommendations presented in Chapter 3 help define a core development agenda under this component. They include the following.1.1	Establish a legislative foundation for a building and land use regulatory authority to protect public health and safety and reduce disaster and chronic risk.1.2	Adopt a legal framework to support the effective enforcement of building code regulations at the local level.1.3	Adopt other legislation that contributes to compliant construction.5.1	Prioritize by building function and exposure to hazards.5.2	Utilize public building programs as points of entry for the regulatory process.5.3	Exploit disaster experience to advance regulatory policy.6.1	Execute hazard mapping for potential urban extension areas in advance of unregulated development to direct new settlement to safer sites.6.2	Reference hazard zones in building codes with emphasis on added structural requirements. 6.3 Execute hazard mapping for existing settlement areas to establish priorities for retrofit and relocation.6.4	Provide infrastructure in safer areas to direct urban expansion and land use.6.5	Make public comprehensive information on hazard exposure and the rationale for land use management.6.6	Institute alternative uses to occupy hazard zones.7.1	Improve regimes of tenure security to create greater incentive for compliance.7.2	Increase the accountability of building professionals by increasing liability regimes backed by insurance mechanisms.7.3	Improve the capability and accountability of regulatory agencies through quality control measures.7.4	Leverage housing finance mechanisms to spur investment into safer housing.7.5	Mobilize market demand for safer buildings.### Component 2: Building Code Development and MaintenanceComponent 2 supports the development of locally implementable building codes, including the adaptation of national model codes. Activities under this component will help establish the basic institutional capacity to develop, adapt, and update appropriate standards of construction through participative and transparent processes at the national level.  Efforts associated with Component 2 will engage local and central stakeholders, including scientific, engineering, and research bodies, in an open and consensus-oriented deliberative process.Component 2 will implement measures ensuring that hazard mapping is appropriately referenced in the local building code, and that the building code covers the full range of prevalent forms of construction (from sophisticated engineered structures to traditional and indigenous construction). Codes should address a range of building-related issues, including structural, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, fire, and energy conservation. Particular attention should be paid to criteria for evaluating and improving vulnerable existing buildings. Under this component, research will be pursued to improve the safety of local construction methods, based on local materials and construction practices. This component will support building code implementation through the dissemination of regulatory documents as well as training for building practitioners in code-compliant design and construction. Further support will be provided to establish an adequate network of accredited facilities for testing and certifying building materials. Direct investment under this component will involve funding of materials testing facilities and equipment, training of staff, and funding of accreditation programs of product-testing laboratories.The recommendations of Chapter 3 relevant to this component include the following.2.1	Establish an open, participatory, consensus-based process for code development.2.2 	Adopt a local building code referencing an established model code but incorporating necessary adaptations to local context.2.3 	Develop a comprehensive building code that covers the full range of relevant construction types and practices.2.4 	Establish building materials testing and certification laboratories accessible to major construction zones.2.5 	Provide for wide dissemination of code documents and training for builders and owners based on code documentation.2.6 	Create and maintain public awareness of basic safe construction principles for the community, building owners, and informal sector builders.### Component 3: Local ImplementationActivities under this component will provide advice to and investment in enhanced regulatory implementation capacity at the local level. Advisory activities will strengthen the core building control functions of preconstruction plan reviews, site inspections, and permitting by leveraging new instruments described in Chapter 3.  These functions will also be strengthened by improving technical outreach services to designers and builders to support code-compliant design and construction.The objectives of the program are to limit the expansion of disaster risk in future urban development and to reduce disaster risk in existing vulnerable communities. Greater regulatory capacity for new construction will provide a foundation for extending regulatory practice to the inspection and improvement of vulnerable existing buildings. Risk reduction in existing precode settlements poses special challenges that will require an augmented building regulatory capacity and an extended period of execution. Assessment and intervention in occupied existing buildings require particular sensitivity to social and economic factors.Concrete opportunities for direct investment include training for building department staff and inspectors to enhance both their advisory and enforcement capacity. Funding can also be directed to code-based professional training programs for architects, engineers, planners, and buildings trades. Funding can support the procurement and installation of ICT infrastructure for online building permitting and inspection systems and, when feasible, integration into larger eGovernment services.The recommendations of Chapter 3 relevant to this component include the following.3.1 Enhance compliance by applying principles of procedural justice and transparency.3.2 Communicate changes associated with local building regulatory reforms.3.3 Establish conflict resolution and appeal mechanisms.3.4 Provide funding and support to building departments at the local level with technically qualified and adequately compensated building officials.3.5 Simplify and reengineer building permitting and inspections procedures.3.6 Apply ICT to support increased efficiency and transparency of building control procedures.3.7 	Apply risk management to construction permits and inspections.3.8 	Apply fee levels consistent with the cost of regulatory services.3.9 	Leverage resources from the private sector for more efficient and effective compliance check mechanisms.3.10 Create robust accountability mechanisms around public-private partnerships in building code compliance checks.4.1 	Enhance the supporting role of regulatory function rather than police enforcement.4.2 	Use regulatory capacity to coordinate training for building trades, architects, engineers, and owner-builders on improved construction techniques and code compliance.5.1 	Prioritize by building function and exposure to hazards.5.2 	Utilize public building programs as points of entry for the regulatory process.5.3 	Exploit disaster experience to advance regulatory policy.6.1 	Execute hazard mapping for potential urban extension areas in advance of unregulated development to direct new settlement to safer sites.6.2 	Reference hazard zones in building codes with emphasis on added structural requirements. 6.3	 Execute hazard mapping for existing settlement areas to establish priorities for retrofit and relocation.6.4 	Provide infrastructure in safer areas to direct urban expansion and land use.6.5 	Make public comprehensive information on hazard exposure and the rationale for land use management.6.6 	Institute alternative uses to occupy hazard zones.### Component 4: Knowledge Sharing and MeasurementWhile Components 1, 2, and 3 will be deployed in specific country interventions, activities under Component 4 will expand the international reach of the program. This component will provide access to common technical, legal, and regulatory resources as well as to shared experience of regulatory implementation and common measurements of regulatory performance. It will also advance the regulatory agenda of the __Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction.__ Specifically, Component 4 will carry out diagnostic assessments of existing regulatory regimes (to establish baseline capacities) as well as risk audits (to determine baseline exposure and vulnerability).  Under Component 4, standardized tools for evaluation and rating of regulatory performance, efficiency, and effectiveness will be developed, adapted, and applied. In turn, these evaluations will help to establish priorities for new project interventions to support building and land use regulatory capacity building.Component 4 will develop a global open-source platform to regroup information from diagnostics and evaluations of regulatory capacity. This information will form the baseline against which future progress may be measured. Component 4 will consolidate knowledge and innovations in regulatory practices and provide access to a range of functioning tools for evaluation and implementation purposes.///A focal point to serve and coordinate both local and international partners///The Building Regulation for Resilience Program will offer the structure to involve and galvanize a wide range of partners with specific strengths and experiences in building a regulatory process. Components 1 and 2 will primarily involve national government entities and organizations. Component 3 will engage local authorities and subnational government organizations as well as NGOs, CBOs, civil society organizations, and professional groups. Partnerships will be established with international organizations across all four components with the aim of coordinating investment activities, knowledge sharing, and funding contributions consistent with the program objectives.Figure 4.2 identifies potential stakeholders and institutional partners for the design and delivery of program intervention across all components.