Implementing online construction in Nairobi, KenyaTepid enforcement of building regulations in Kenya has often resulted in porous oversight on safety, higher costs for all involved, and human casualties in Kenya’s construction sector. Over the past year alone, no less than three buildings have collapsed in Nairobi County despite the new e-Construction Permit Management System (e-CP)  being in place. The collapsed buildings did not have the required construction permit approvals from the relevant county departments. The lack of adherence to proper procedures and building regulations increases the risk of collapsing.The e-CP system was developed with the support of the World Bank Group’s Investment Climate Program to help speed and simplify building permit approval processes, improve administrative efficiency for construction permits and promote best practices within the construction industry. The e-CP system allows inspection officers to track all developments and record progress of the construction remotely by inputting information through tablets.  The new system generally makes it more efficient to monitor and enforce any constructions approved through the system.  The e-CP streamlines the submissions process and makes it more transparent, as applicants will be able to monitor the status of their application in real time through a web-and SMS-based tracking and notification system. Architects in Nairobi County acknowledge that ad hoc and informal charges previously imposed on them, such as unofficial fees to expedite approval processes, have been reduced significantly. This system also has the potential to ring-fence building permit fees that are a critical revenue stream for the county.Despite challenges in the prevalent ICT and legal infrastructure in Kenya, the web-based software application introduced by the CCN enabled eight major functions that radically transformed the management of construction permitting and inspections in Nairobi after 2011. These key functions included+ .Online registration of building professionals and property developers.+ .Online submission of building plans.+ .Workflow management, specifically concurrent review and evaluation.+ .Online issuance of permit upon approval.+ .Document management and archiving.+ .Support for field inspections using mobile devices.+ .Client interactions through SMS/email notifications and online tracking.+ .Management reporting and oversight.Source: IFC