Box 3.6 Peru and Nicaragua: Simplification of building permitting procedures through communication (2006-2009)

Like many countries in Latin America, Peru and Nicaragua have been burdened with complicated and costly municipal regulations that impact operating licenses and construction permits. According to Doing Business 2005, in that year it took 189 days to obtain a construction permit in Nicaragua. Inefficient processes at the municipal level contributed to high transaction costs for those subjected to local regulations. Rates of building informality were hovering around 80 percent of building stocks, thus increasing the vulnerability of local population in the context of significant seismic risks in both countries.
The Municipal Simplification projects in Peru and Nicaragua, led by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), built strong support for reform by engaging stakeholders and creating a sense of ownership in municipalities. Each project employed an overarching strategic communications approach, anchored in a national plan that prioritized communications at each stage of the project life cycle. To ensure reform adoption and sustainability, the project teams localized the approach, carefully tailoring the communications strategies and associated messages to local building authorities, building practitioners, and other partners. After Nicaragua had concluded its three municipal pilots in Granada, Masaya, and Leon, compliance costs of operating and construction permits were reduced by 30 percent on average; business formalization increased sevenfold.
In both Peru and Nicaragua, an active strategic communication approach was crucial to putting administrative simplification on the political agenda and permanently tying the reforms to stakeholders’ interests in the building sector.
Through a coordinated and documented communications strategy, the municipalities effectively harnessed public-private partnerships to build support and increase visibility in the press. They also used these partnerships to build a national umbrella campaign message, localize reform messages, deliver those messages to the right places, and develop local ownership of a national plan. These teams went beyond disseminating information, excelling at communicating strategically.
Source:  IFC 2007.