Improving safe construction in Peru through informed building code regulations and seismic hazard knowledgeA CAPRA technical assistance project to update and improve the existing seismic hazard information in Peru, a country with a history of seismic activity, was carried out from late 2010 until March 2012.  This helped to support the Peruvian national and local governments in getting better access to seismic hazard information as an input for any disaster risk reduction measures and activities (related, for example, to loss of life, infrastructure, buildings, and basic services).  Seismic hazard information can be represented as maps and provide a visual and spatial understanding of seismic hazard. Maps and other seismic hazard information enable the scientific community, government authorities, and the general public to be better informed and plan for potential future events.In addition, this information provides the necessary inputs to enable authorities to improve building standards by incorporating seismic design concepts in the construction of schools, hospitals, office buildings, and large public works.The Peru probabilistic seismic hazard assessment exercise was the product of a technical assistance project using the CAPRA probabilistic risk assessment software platform. The project was sponsored and technically supported by the World Bank, funded by the Spanish Fund for Latin America and the Caribbean, and implemented by the Geophysical Institute of Peru. CAPRA is a free and open-source platform for probabilistic risk analysis to better inform decision making in disaster risk management.The project’s main objectives were to+ .Prepare national level seismic information and maps for regulatory purposes, and+ .Contribute to reducing risk resulting from inadequate design or construction. The results were incorporated into the update of the seismic design standard led by a governmental special committee.The seismic hazard information produced under the CAPRA project is now used as an input in the seismic risk assessment developed to inform retrofitting and replacement choices for the school infrastructure in Lima. The ability to access hazard and risk information will allow institutions responsible for building design standards to improve these standards and will contribute to a more effective building code regime. Technical and scientific institutions will need to regularly update this information through continuous research and additional data.  However, the benefit of hazard maps and the critical information that they provide will only be realized if building codes are adequately enforced in Peru.Source: Geophysical Institute of Peru; World Bank CAPRA Technical Assistance Project 2012