The report was written by Thomas Moullier in close collaboration with Frederick Krimgold. A team supervised by Thomas Moullier and comprising the following individuals contributed to relevant background work: Keiko Sakoda Kaneda, Jennifer Duyne, Florentin Blanc, Giuseppa Ottimofiore, Michael de Lint, Ommid Saberi, Antoine Hanzen, and Naseem Baradaran Fallahkhair. Important contributors also included Eric Dickson, Mohsen Ashtiany, Oscar Anil Ishizawa Escudero, Shahnaz Arshad, Emmy Chepkirui, Markus Njehiah Kimani, John Keddy Mwangi, Fernando Ramirez Cortes, Yelda Kirbay Reis, Patricia Steele, Kathrine Kirstein, Kim Lovegrove, and Christopher Chung. We thank our colleagues, both internal and external, who provided helpful comments and reviews on this report and on its preliminary outline published in January 2015. These individuals include Francis Ghesquiere, Ellen Hamilton, Niels Holm-Nielsen, Abhas K. Jha, Alejandro Espinosa Wang, Jolanta Kryspin-Watson, Sofia Bettencourt, Amod Dixit, Jeroen van der Heijden, Margaret Arnold, Mike Davis, Polat Gülkan, Geoffrey Payne, Syed Akhtar Mahmood, Chuck Ramani, Raj Nathan, Alberto Herrera, Theo Schilderman, Tony Gibbs, Peter May, Pedro Oliveira, Paul Everall, Andrew Minturn, Ismet Gungor, Abigail Baca, Zuzana Stanton-Geddes, Iwan Gunawan, Rinsan Tobing,Sri Probo Sudarmo, Artessa Saldivar-Sali, Svetlana Brzev, Prashant Singh, James Newman, Luis Tineo, Jon Mikel Walton, Catherine Farvacque-Vitkovic, Ira Peppercorn, John Wille, Marc Forni, Steven Louis Rubinyi, James Turner, Ellen Vaughan, Sameh Naguib Wahba, and Shaela Rahman. We are grateful to our colleagues from UN-Habitat, UNESCO, and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for their contributions and guidance. Individuals from these organizations included Tatsuo Narafu, Dan Lewis, Patricia Holly Purcell, Robert Lewis-Lettington, Soichiro Yasukawa, and Alexandros Makarigakis. Substantive contributions were received from the American Association for Laboratory Accreditation (A2LA), specifically from Sylvana Ricciarini and Peter Unger in association with Alexander Pineda and Luis Velasquez, respectively head of Oficina Guatemalteca de Acreditacion (OGA) and director of Centro Tecnologico del Cemento y Concreto (CETEC) in Guatemala. We are thankful for the administrative and logistical support provided by Valerie Ligonde, Loretta Matthews, Hoang Minh Do, Kim-Van Thi Nguyen, and Regianne Henriette Bertolassi. We thank the team at Bivee Inc, including Haley Cline, Scott Schaffter, Jay Perry, and Nicholas Kingston, for the design and layout of the report and Anne Himmelfarb for proofreading and copyediting services.Special thanks are due to Christine Zhenwei Qiang and her team from the Trade & Competitiveness Global Practice of the World Bank Group, as well as the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery, for their generous funding and support. 