## 1.3 Insufficient legislative foundation for effective building regulation at the national level
While the local level is key for implementing and enforcing building regulation, this local authority must be solidly based on national legislation that defines the public role in protecting public health, safety, and welfare in the built environment. National legislation must outline roles and responsibilities of subordinate agencies of government and devolve regulatory authority to appropriate levels of government. Consistent and complementary national legislation is necessary to establish the legal framework in which building regulation can be implemented. This includes legislation governing the certification of building professionals and regulation of the property insurance and mortgage banking industries.
Incomplete national legislation fails to establish principles of regulatory implementation and does not designate public and private responsibilities.  Moreover, it often fails to connect building regulation with the larger ecosystem of civil, commercial, insurance, and criminal law. 
For example, the Steering Committee of the Jamaican National Building Code began developing a new building code for Jamaica in 2002.  The work of the committee initially focused on strictly technical aspects of building standards development and adaptation.  However, it soon became clear to the committee chairman, engineer Noel DaCosta, that a parallel legislative effort was equally necessary to establish a complete system of compliance and responsibility. In the words of Mr. DaCosta:

“Producing code documents cannot by itself guarantee their usage or effective implementation. Consideration had to be given to the preparation of legislation, training and compliance methodologies. In particular, it would require drafting a Policy Framework Document, a new National Building Act for Jamaica and detailed regulations under the Act.”<sup>43</sup>

In the case of Jamaica, a technical initiative to develop a local building code (adapted from the International Building Code developed by the International Code Council) gradually transformed into a more comprehensive effort.  This reformed agenda sought to ensure that the new code could be practically enforced through appropriate national supporting legislation and educational programs.
The understanding of the legal support mechanisms for successful building code compliance, as well as the timely passage of enabling laws, can be particularly critical in driving the success of regulatory reforms. 
Following the 1999 Kocaeli earthquake in Turkey, the central government took bold action in promulgating Decree 595 in 2000. The decree introduced profound innovations in building controls, such as an increase in qualification requirements for building designers.  Additionally, the decree introduced the concept of certified private construction supervision firms tasked with verifying design calculations and code compliance of the actual construction. The decree also required building designers to carry mandatory 10-year professional liability insurance for each project. 
Unfortunately, this impressive reform effort came to an abrupt end in 2001. The progress toward disaster risk reduction was opposed by elements of the building and real estate industries, who saw that the new requirements could disadvantage current professionals and add marginal cost to new construction. In addition, government efforts failed to coordinate this initiative with other important national legislation.  Such action is crucial; coordination serves to remove uncertainty and establish clear lines of accountability in enforcement, thus providing detailed qualifications requirements for building professionals, clarifying the commercial status of the newly designated supervision firms, and providing resources to newly created regional construction oversight bodies (Box 1.2). 
Another form of bottleneck at the national level is not necessarily the resistance of national legislative authorities to develop underpinning legislation.  Rather, it derives from delays in organizing the required consultations, endorsing legal drafts, implementing regulations by appropriate line ministries, and completing the legislative process.
Early in Jamaica’s new building code development process (approximately 2006), the queue for work coming out of the Office of the Chief Parliamentary Counsel was 10 years long—suggesting that without special provisions, the new Building Act would not see the light of day until 2016. At the time of writing this report, the new Building Act has not yet been passed by Parliament.
