Building cyclone-resistant housing in Madagascar by linking hazard zoning maps and building code

Madagascar is one of the most exposed countries in the world to cyclone risks, averaging three to four cyclones a year.  The 2008 cyclone season, for example, damaged some 6 percent of existing health centers and 4 percent of primary schools, in addition to causing extensive damage to irrigation and transport infrastructure. Many of the structures had already been weakened by poor maintenance and past cyclone damage.
To address cyclone risk, Madagascar’s National Unit for the Prevention and Management of Disasters set as its highest priority the development of weather-resistant building and infrastructure codes. The codes were then linked to a national wind map, with design requirements varying according to the design wind speed. The zones define the design wind speed, and the location of the building in a given zone determines the required design. 
The Madagascar Meteorological Department developed its wind map based on historical data of cyclone maximum wind speeds for the different zones, and made projections about how climate change would affect the probability of cyclone landfall and wind strength. The latter were derived from an analysis of 10,000 simulated cyclone tracks.
The inclusion of the risk of wind speed occurrence is therefore a part of a risk-based code. The structural requirements of the code are determined by reference to the wind risk map.
The new cyclone-resistant codes were adopted by a government decree signed by all 31 ministries on April 20, 2010, and are based on the codes of Reunion Island and Tonga.  The codes are strictest in Zone 1, where they are set to resist wind speeds of 266 kilometers per hour (74 meters per second).  The estimated cost markup relative to a construction standard of 126 kilometers per hour (35 meters per second) in the Highlands is 14 percent.  For traditional housing, the additional costs are 24 to 104 percent.  The design has been field tested; as a result of the adoption of cyclone-resistant codes by the Development Intervention Fund (FID), only 1 in 1,000 public buildings built by the social fund has been damaged.
Madagascar’s new codes are mandatory for public buildings, such as schools and health centers, and are recommended for traditional houses in high-risk areas.  They are integrated into the urban and habitat codes. If a public building fails, the decree provides for a public enquiry by local collectivities.
An innovative feature of the new regulation is that it allows for the possibility of civil penalties for both constructors and inspectors in cases of building failure.  By making inspection firms co-liable, the new regulation requires certified firms to inspect and confirm compliance. It also discourages unprofessional and corrupt practices.

__Sources:__ Sofia Bettencourt; World Bank 2013.
