Establishing minimum qualifications for building professionalsSustained effort toward developing minimum levels of technical expertise is one of the major factors that contributes to more robust regulatory regimes. Good practice imposes specific qualification requirements for architects, engineers, building contractors, and building inspectors. These qualifications are often designed and administered by licensing bodies of governments, professional societies, or nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), such as the International Code Council in the U.S. Professional associations of engineers and architects may operate under public right to practice legislation, as in Ontario, Canada, or multistakeholder practitioner boards, such as in the state of Victoria, Australia.Some regulatory regimes have relied on licensing mechanisms for building professionals.  Such mechanisms serve to strategically structure and expand the technical capacity and responsibilities of the professionals. These efforts are important for two reasons.+ .First, licensing mechanisms can critically contribute to ensuring compliance with building codes and standards. For example, professionals who routinely fail to comply with building codes and standards stand to lose their license to practice or can be disciplined in some other way.+ .Second, more established professional licensing mechanisms can support increased collaboration between municipalities and private engineers. Contracting out review and inspection activities allows public entities to take advantage of private sector professional capability.Good-practice licensing programs often expect greater accountability of building professionals and building officials. They tend to be more successful when they establish(i) Sound entry-level qualifications based on educational and experience credentials and knowledge of building regulations.(ii) Training and testing to verify knowledge of local codes and legal context.(iii) Continuing education to remain up-to-date with changing codes and requirements.(iv) Mechanisms to prevent licensing from becoming an unfair market entry control tool in the hands of market incumbents.In some cases, licensing authorities may require building practitioners to carry professional liability insurance, as is now the case in France, Spain, Canada, and Victoria, Australia.