The Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct of the American Institute of Architects (AIA)The AIA Code of Ethics exemplifies the self-regulation that characterizes many of the building sector’s professional societies. The preamble to the AIA’s Code of Ethics describes the principles upon which the Code of Ethics is based and stipulates that AIA members are dedicated to the highest standards of professionalism, integrity, and competence. This code itself includes guidelines for the conduct of members in fulfilling those obligations. The code is arranged in three tiers of statements: canons, ethical standards, and rules of conduct.+ .Canons are broad principles of conduct.+ .Ethical standards are more specific goals toward which members should aspire in professional performance and behavior. + .Rules of conduct are mandatory; violation of a rule is grounds for disciplinary action by the Institute. Commentary is provided for some of the rules of conduct and is meant to clarify or elaborate the intent of a rule. The code applies to the professional activities of all AIA members regardless of their membership category and is enforced by the National Ethics Council (NEC).The NEC comprises seven members of the Institute who are appointed by the AIA’s Board of Directors. The NEC’s decisions may be appealed to the Institute’s Executive Committee; if the NEC recommends termination, the decision is automatically appealed to the AIA’s Board of Directors. In addition to enforcing the code, the NEC also proposes revisions to the Code of Ethics and to the NEC’s Rules of Procedure.As part of its efforts to educate members about their obligations under the Code of Ethics, to support AIA component executives, and to inform the general public about ethical issues that arise in the fields of architecture and design, the NEC conducts educational programs on ethics at the AIA’s convention, the Institute’s annual grassroots conference for component executives, and at various other seminars and programs hosted by AIA components.Source: American Institute of Architects.