The French mandatory liability insurance system: a main driver of compliance with building standardsIn France, builders are liable to the owner for any damage revealed within 10 years which renders all or part of the building defective or unsafe. This 10-year liability provision provides joint liability for builders and manufacturers, thus shortening and simplifying the process of identifying who is liable for the cost of repair. In this way, any key player involved in the construction can be held liable for the entire cost of the repairs. In the meantime, the cause of the damage can be investigated. A 10-year liability is presumed and applies to any damage that compromises the integrity of the structure or that affects essential elements of the building, rendering it unsuitable for its intended use.Nearly all actors involved in the building process, apart from the owner, are subject to such liability, and so is the seller of the building after completion. The idea is that whoever creates a problem must pay compensation. Because the 10-year liability is mandated by law, no contractual clause may depart from it.The mandatory insurance requirement applies to any work on a building and to the various actors involved in the building process. Both the owner and the builder must take out insurance.The owner’s insurance covers against all damages to the building. The insurer compensates the owner before any research on liability is initiated for any damage (or any risk of damage) occurring within the 10-year period. The builder’s insurance covers the 10-year liability period. Provided the builder has complied with state-of-the-art standards, referred to as “DTUs,” insurance companies will cover the repair costs for any serious damage. The mandatory insurance regime has led to a shift of power and workload toward insurance companies. With the exception of submitting a claim, the process requires no other intervention by the owner. A court process is seldom needed because insurance companies mostly resolve claims directly between themselves. As a result, delays in receiving compensation are short in most cases. Complaints are submitted to courts only if the conflict cannot be resolved at the insurance level, creating fewer costs for the state. Due to the mandatory insurance system, insurance companies have a significant influence on the content of building contracts and on the techniques and products used during the building process. By making DTUs mandatory, insurance companies act as an actual enforcer of building standards. Moreover, by allowing a fast and adequate compensation of any damage, the system protects the owner and the user of the building.