Tajikistan: So many building inspections, for what result?In Tajikistan, a country particularly prone to seismic activity, regulatory inspections and enforcement are very strict. Reform efforts have led only to a slight decrease in the percentage of businesses inspected at least once a year—from 99 percent in 2002 and 96 percent in 2005 to 85 percent in 2007. In the construction sector, 100 percent of businesses are inspected at least once a year, regardless of size or risk profile.Obtaining approval for a construction project is one of the most difficult procedures in the country. In 2007, the process of approval for a small shop required no less than 13 steps. Many of these steps required additional substeps, resulting in an average process duration of 18 months in total. Fire safety inspections—which are among the most frequent types of inspections in the country—consistently cover about half of all businesses, with two visits a year on average.However, most of these control activities are of little benefit for public safety. In __Doing Business 2015__, Tajikistan ranked 168th out of 189 countries in the “Dealing with construction permits” indicator. Corruption is rife in construction permits and in inspections; over 40 percent of firms reported having to pay a bribe for construction permits in 2007. Many inspections, in fact, appear to be conducted primarily for graft—in 2005, approximately 35 percent of all inspection visits lasted less than 30 minutes, a duration that does not suggest that real regulatory supervision work was actually conducted.Although inspectors and regulators impose a high administrative burden through multiple and random visits of construction sites, they do not support compliance by educating the public or builders. In the formal building sector, compliance with building code requirements is actually low. Builders are often able to minimize costs by using the high degree of administrative discretion as a tool for evading regulatory requirements.While, fortunately, no major disaster has recently struck Tajikistan, future events are likely to cause damage given the patterns of seismic risks in the country. Soviet-era construction norms are still in use; though outdated, they should in principle mitigate earthquake consequences if complied with. In reality, however, building practices are often poor, suggesting that builders misunderstand many norms and lack knowledge of technological advances.  At the same time, building practices highlight a very intensive yet dysfunctional system of inspections. 