How innovative building control regulations in Turkey were impaired by the absence of sufficiently supportive legal frameworks The government of Turkey quickly adopted Decree 595 in 2000 following the previous year’s earthquake. Although it was not perfect legislation, many of the decree’s new robust mechanisms for controlling construction were considered revolutionary by international standards. It was one of the most spectacular and focused regulatory responses in building code regimes following a disaster of this scale. The decree showed an exceptional level of attention to delivery and building code implementation mechanisms for private construction (public institutional buildings were excluded from the scope of the legislation). However, concomitant changes that should have happened in several provisions of national civil, commercial, and insurance laws were not introduced. This lack of action served to undermine the reform and bring it rapidly to an end. The decree was eventually rescinded in May 2001 by Turkey’s Constitutional Court. National legislation failed to bring essential provisions to support the reform initiated in 2000. This was reflected in the following issues:+ .No oversight of the supervising construction firms was introduced by the new legislation.+ .Public buildings were still to be supervised by engineers from the Ministry of Public Works, but no qualification requirements applied to these engineers not mentioned in the 2000 legislation.+ .No legal requirement was applied to archiving design calculations and drawings for later judicial referral if needed, which impaired conflict resolution.+ .Conflicts existed between the 2000 decree and the provisions in Turkish legislation regarding the payment of liability exceeding 10 years.+ .No legislation existed supporting the Provincial Supervision Commission, an oversight mechanism created by Decree 595 to monitor the firms supervising the new building construction.+ .No clarity was provided on how the mandatory earthquake insurance legislated by the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool (TCIP) would be consistent with the new liability mechanism.+ .Finally, there were serious loopholes and a lack of clarity on qualification requirements for building professionals and the way new licenses should be granted—a factor compounded, at the time, by obstruction from professional societies.__Source:__ Adapted from Gülkan 2010.