## Regulatory ecology: The interdependent institutional context
The effectiveness and efficiency of building and land use regulation depend on a broader institutional context, referred to as regulatory ecology. In the developed world, regulatory capacity has evolved in parallel with a complex array of supporting and interrelated institutions. 
Successful regulatory regimes are closely related to the legal and financial mechanisms of the surrounding economy. A safer built environment depends on general rule of law and public acceptance of public authority to manage collective risk. Compliance with public regulation depends on public trust of municipal authorities. Financial mechanisms, such as mortgage lending and insurance, play a critical role in facilitating improved construction by funding compliant construction over time, while also quantifying and monetizing risk for a number of hazards. 
More particular to the building sector are a range of institutions that contribute directly to both the improvement of quality in construction and the reduction of disaster and chronic risk. In the areas of education and training, there exist professional and workforce training institutions and bodies that accredit those institutions. There is an array of standards-setting organizations related to all aspects of building equipment and building processes that provide reference standards for the building codes. Materials testing laboratories exist to certify the quality of building materials and assemblies. 
The intricate interplay of legal liability, financial risk management, and insurance underwriting serves to reinforce the regulatory process to ensure a safer built environment. Though the focus of this report is on the necessary formation of the core components of the regulatory framework, parallel development and investment must advance in these interdependent institutions of the regulatory ecology.
Selected key elements of this regulatory ecology for the built environment include
///The rule of law./// Building and land use regulation are the base legal mechanisms to protect public health, safety, and general welfare in the built environment. Regulation for public benefit can only deliver in a functioning legal environment, in which rules are respected and compliance can be enforced. 
///Security of tenure./// Confidence in rights of ownership of land and built assets is a necessary precondition for interest and investment in building quality and resilience. Security of tenure clearly depends on the rule of law.  
///Building finance./// To the extent that safe construction may require increased initial funding, mortgage and construction lending institutions play a key role in facilitating code compliance and can stimulate retrofitting.  Availability of building finance also provides an alternative to unsafe incremental construction. Building finance depends on security of tenure and ultimately the rule of law.
///Professional education./// Safe and resilient construction requires safe siting by planners aware of hazards, and safe design by architects and engineers aware of safe design principles. It also requires building officials with full understanding of code provisions. These essential built-environment professionals must be adequately trained in accredited institutions and individually licensed on the basis of tested technical competence. Their certified professional competence is critically important in the complex physical environment of rapidly expanding urban areas. Professional accreditation, certification, and licensing are all important aspects of the rule of law and can be reinforced by requirements related to building finance and insurance. Defining professional qualifications requires in-depth consultations with design professionals in order to develop practical and feasible requirements for minimum qualifications at various professional levels.
///Professional codes of practice./// Professional societies of the building sector in developed countries have taken responsibility for self-regulation of their members’ professional conduct, both by developing codes of professional practice and by helping to maintain codes and standards of institutional accreditation. Professional societies play an important role in supporting effective building and land use regulation in most developed countries. 
///Training for construction industry and labor force./// All members of the construction industry—not just design and construction professionals—must understand, accept, and abide by building codes and standards. It is critical that construction detailing be executed correctly and that construction materials be understood and correctly applied. This is particularly important for reinforced concrete and other nontraditional materials.
///Quality control for building materials./// Quality control of materials is essential in modern construction. The integrity of a structure depends on the quality of its materials and the method of their preparation. Testing and certification of building materials and components by accredited laboratories is necessary for safe modern construction. 
///Accredited training institutions./// Accredited training institutions provide specific training for various practitioners, including public and private building inspectors, engineers, architects, contractors, and builders. Many municipalities also require specific training for the key functions of the building department.
Training institutions provide a way to transfer knowledge and—when attached to mandatory training, qualification, or even licensing requirements— can improve compliance and efficiency. More qualified designers, contractors, and inspectors are better able to evaluate alternative, vernacular, or innovative building approaches because they have a better understanding of building science and regulatory procedure. A balanced ecology involves training institutions that are not limited to academic institutions. The private sector should be engaged in developing a robust on-the-job training system that does not present a disproportionately high barrier to entry for practitioners.
///Insurance./// The insurance industry has played an important role in the historical development of building regulation as a means to manage risk and exposure in many developed countries. Insurance is based on the quantification and translation of risk into monetary premiums that are comprehended by building owners as the present and recurring cost of risk. 
Typically, building finance requires insurance to cover real estate investments. The insurance companies, in turn, require code compliance, professional certification, and material quality control. Effective regulation is a requirement for insurance underwriting. Beyond property and casualty insurance, professional liability insurance plays an important role in regulating the qualifications and performance of designers and contractors. The insurance mechanism reinforces the academic accreditation and public licensing for building professionals.
The insurance industry is in the business of quantifying risk and estimating premiums that cover losses and produce profit. This incentive has supported the development of tools for evaluating risk factors and estimating probable losses. The Insurance Services Office (ISO) has in the past developed tools for estimating community fire risk based on construction, firefighting capability, and water supply. These evaluated variables are used to develop a community index, which insurers then use to establish premium rates for fire insurance in the community. 
In an extension of this concept, the ISO has developed the Building Code Effectiveness Grading Schedule (BCEGS). This methodology evaluates building department effectiveness in code compliance related to natural hazard vulnerability in the community. The resulting index is used by insurers to determine premium rates for natural hazard insurance.
